♪ Thank you for bein' a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road and back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ "Thank you for bein' a friend" ♪
-Mmm. Sophia, what are you doing up?
-I'm cooking. I couldn't sleep.
Me neither. What are you making?
Sausage and peppers, pasta pesto,
and ziti with oil and garlic.
-Ooh, ooh. And what's this?
-Garbage. Rose cooked it.
Mmm! This kitchen smells terrific.
My chipped beef must be done.
Sophia, would you like a little scoop
on some toasted white bread?
What do I look like, Beetle Bailey?
Ma, you'll never guess
who I just spoke with.
-Uncle Vito.
-How did you know?
I picked up the phone and listened in.
It's a little thing I do.
My uncle Vito's coming to visit,
and he's staying with us.
He arrives Thursday for a whole week.
-Where will he stay?
-My room. I'll sleep with ma.
My cousin Milo's coming.
Don't you remember?
He's going to be in town
for the 14th annual hog expo.
Is it the 14th annual already?
It seems just like yesterday
it was the 12th annual.
♪ Sunrise, sunset ♪
-♪ Sunrise ♪
-Dorothy, cut it out.
What are we going to do?
We'll figure out some arrangements.
Besides, everything will work out fine,
as long as I don't
have to sleep with Rose.
-Why won't you want to sleep with me?
-For starters, you talk in your sleep.
And let's face it,
you're no Dick Cavett awake.
-I do not talk in my sleep.
-Oh, yes, you do, and you snore!
-No, I don't. Dorothy snores!
-Oh, that's right.
You snore worse than a sailor
passed out at an adult motel
after a night of passion
while I had to call a cab...
never mind.
The point is, you snore.
None of you is a day at the beach.
Remember when the heat gave out?
Boy, what a night!
Salvadore, if you want to fool around,
take off your t-shirt.
You're going to get linguine all over me.
Ma, go back to sleep.
It's just me, Dorothy.
Get the hell out of here!
Ma, have a heart. The heat went out again.
I'm freezing to death.
You have the only electric blanket.
I'll die under here with you.
Your body's like a heat sponge.
I'll get up a frozen fish stick.
Ma, don't be ridiculous.
Turn up the heat.
It's already on 9.
On 10, you can cook a Lean Cuisine.
Good night, ma.
You know, ma...
this reminds me of the time
the heat went out in our apartment
back in Brooklyn.
I was about 7 years old.
I was still sleeping with my rag doll
Mrs. Doolittle.
I remember I woke up
with my teeth chattering.
I tiptoed to your bedroom door...
I opened it a crack, and I whispered,
"Mommy, Mrs. Doolittle is cold.
-Mommy, Mrs. Doolittle--"
-Dorothy.
-Yes, ma?
-Cut the crap. I'm not in the mood!
Oh, girls!
Could I share your electric blanket?
-No.
I can't sleep.
My bed's never been so cold,
especially on a Saturday night.
Oh, all right. Get in.
Brrr!
Listen, did you hear that sound?
Yeah, and in my bed, I'll do what I want.
I mean, it sounded like
the heat kicking on.
Get back to your own beds.
-Hi, everybody.
-What are you doing?
-Trying to fix the heater.
-Rose, you're a genius.
Boy, that's a sentence
you don't hear every day.
She's working great, except for one thing.
I turned the air conditioner on,
and it won't go off.
It'll be colder inside than it is outside!
I think you're right.
There's an icicle forming
on the nose of my bunny slippers.
-Move over.
-Oh. Ow!
Oh!
Oh.
There. That's not so bad.
Get your bunny nose out of my butt.
-Let's just get some sleep!
-Good night, ma.
Good night, Moe. Good night, Larry.
I won't be able to sleep.
I'm on the wrong side of the bed.
I usually sleep on the right.
I want the right.
What the hell is everyone
so particular about?
In Sicily, four in a bed is a treat.
It means half your family is on vacation.
I slept with my two brothers
until I was 17.
I was engaged to one
for a very short period of time.
But that's a separate story.
I wouldn't mind hearing it.
-Oh.
-Rose, shut up!
Stay where you are and go to sleep!
I have to work early in the morning.
-Oh, darn. I forgot something.
-Go in your pajamas.
No, it's not that.
I forgot to say my prayers.
Oh, Rose! God wouldn't mind
if you skipped a night.
He's very busy these days.
Most of his free time
is spent talking to Pat Robertson.
Hello, God. It's me.
Rose Nylund.
Sorry I'm getting in touch
so late tonight.
Hope I didn't wake you.
Oh, God.
One at a time, Blanche.
Anyway, I just wanted to say I...
think you're still doing a terrific job.
Of course, there's some things
I don't understand...
like poverty...
and the spokes model category
on Star Search.
But then again, you work your wonders
in mysterious ways.
A couple of years ago,
on a night like this,
I would've frozen to death
because I was by myself...
and now I have Dorothy and Blanche
and Sophia to keep me warm.
Not just in winter, but all year long.
Take care of them, God.
If anything happened, I just--
(Dorothy as God)
Rose, thanks for the lovely prayer.
Now shut up and get into bed.
Amen!
Nice work, Dorothy.
It wasn't me.
Sweet Jesus, am I in trouble?
Now I lay me down to sleep...
I'd almost forgotten about that night.
With all of us cramped into that bed,
I slept in positions
I never thought possible.
Me, too.
Sophia, when's that food going
to be ready to taste?
-My beef is ready.
-I really wanted something hot.
-Mine's hot.
-I really wanted something spicy.
Mine's spicy!
She really wanted something
that wouldn't test her gag reflex.
-I'll fix you a plate of mine, Blanche.
-And I'll try some of yours.
Coming right up.
-(thunder)
-Oh!
Oh, I hate thunderstorms!
They make me a nervous wreck.
That's another reason
I hate bunking with you, Rose.
Everything makes you nervous,
and when you're nervous,
you're unbearable.
Remember that night
you barged into my room
like a raving lunatic?
I was ready to kill you.
(thunder)
-(knock on door)
-Come in.
-Blanche.
-Hmm?
I just heard on the radio
two killers escaped
-from a Georgia state penitentiary.
-So?
"So?"
They could be headed here.
Honey, they escaped in Georgia.
-Why on Earth would they come to Miami?
-For the same reason we did.
Eligible men?
Rose, I'm sure there's
nothing to worry about.
Well, I...
-I just thought you ought to know.
-Yeah, I appreciate it.
-I won't bother you again.
-Good night.
Oh, please, Blanche!
Please. I'm too scared
to go back to my room.
This kind of thing has
always frightened me.
Ever since I was a little girl.
When I first heard my parents whispering
about the St. Olaf slasher.
-Slasher?
-Yes.
Oh, he terrorized St. Olaf for months.
In the dark of night, he'd sneak in
to an unsuspecting farmer's field
and mercilessly slash
your scarecrow to shreds.
He was a scarecrow slasher?
Primarily.
Although he was suspected in the
disfigurement of several whiskbrooms.
Oh. I was so scared at night,
I'd sleep in the closet
so he couldn't find me.
Rose. Don't say another word to me.
Get into bed
and don't say another word.
Oh, Blanche.
You'll never even know I'm here.
Fine.
(thunder)
-When are you coming to bed?
-In a minute.
-What are you doing?
-I am contouring my eyebrows.
I use miss Christie Brinkley as a guide.
We have the same bone structure.
I just hope she doesn't let herself go
to pot after that baby comes.
Don't want her husband
coming after me.
I never do much with my eyebrows.
That's why from the nose up
you look like Wilford Brimley.
Now don't say another word.
Just go to sleep.
-Can I leave my light on?
-Yes.
-I want you to know I appreciate this.
-Did I just say, "go to sleep"?
I can't. I'm too scared.
-Tell me a story.
-What?
-I don't know any.
Make one up!
All right. Once there were three bears--
-Not that one.
-Pigs.
-No!
-Elephants.
They lived with a girl named Rose.
-They lived in the house?
-They were elephant dolls.
Every night when Rose went to bed,
she'd take the elephants.
-They made her feel secure.
-Elephant dolls?
Right. Until finally one night,
they got tired of Rose annoying them,
they went someplace else,
and two escaped convicts
snuck in through the window,
-murdering Rose in her sleep.
-Oh!
Rose.
Oh, Rose! Grow up!
Mm, Sophia. That ziti was delicious.
Please. Tell me something I don't know.
Dorothy, you didn't even
taste my chipped beef.
Of course I did, Rose.
-You didn't like it.
-Oh, don't be ridiculous. I loved it.
Well, then have another bite.
Okay.
(thunder)
Oh, no.
The power lines must be down.
(Sophia) That's just great.
I got 10 pounds of fresh clams
in the refrigerator.
Mm.
Rose, that was delicious.
Oh, thank you.
Who moved my purse?
Hey.
Why does it feel so heavy?
Now... listen, you know,
we have these people coming to visit,
and we haven't decided
on the sleeping arrangements.
I'll sleep with Sophia.
I should sleep with ma.
We've done it before.
-We get along just fine.
-Except when you're sick.
-Remember when you had bronchitis?
-I was really ill.
Cool as a cucumber, thank God.
-Ma, you woke me up.
-It's time for your medicine.
I just took my medicine.
You took it after dinner,
then you fell asleep.
Read how much you should take.
I don't remember.
-Two teaspoons every six hours.
-That's wrong.
-It's written here!
-The pharmacist made a mistake.
If he knew what he was doing,
he would be a doctor,
instead of dressing like one.
Give me a break. I'll take it later.
-You're a lousy patient.
-What do you want? I'm sick!
I don't know that?
I've sat here for three nights
just to look at you?
Believe me, you're no oil painting.
I've been sitting here
because I thought you needed me.
You needed me when you had the mumps,
the chicken pox, whooping cough...
rubella...
or was Rubella our cleaning lady?
It doesn't matter.
It hurts me to see my baby sick.
But if I'm only being a nuisance,
I'll be happy to leave you alone.
Oh, ma, wait. Ma, no, don't.
Ma, please.
Come back here, ma.
I do need you.
I'm sorry. I'm just cranky.
You're right. I'm a lousy patient.
I always have been.
I remember when I was a little girl and
used to get those terrible chest colds...
and you'd whip up a batch
of that homemade liniment
to rub on my chest.
That was nasty stuff.
Cod liver oil, garlic,
petroleum jelly, parsley.
I remember once I asked you,
"Why parsley?"
You said, "Presentation is very
important."
Whenever I saw you
coming down the hall
with that ceramic bowl
and a paintbrush...
I'd run and hide under my bed and cry...
then you'd rub some on my doll,
Mrs. Doolittle,
to show me that it didn't hurt.
And I'd come out from under the bed,
you'd put it on my chest...
and the next day, I'd always feel better.
Remember, ma?
Good night, ma.
Thanks for everything.
I heard every word you said.
I was just resting my eyes
so you'd leave me alone.
With your father,
it only worked half the time.
Asleep, awake, it didn't matter to him.
Men are built that way.
It's a fact. I saw Dr. Art Ulene explain
it on The Today Show with a plastic model.
You slept like a baby.
I know. I spent the whole night awake
in that chair.
Couldn't be worse than sleeping on
a hard wooden bench in a railway station.
Boy, you do it any place,
don't you, Blanche?
Blanche is talking about coming back
from Edna McCarthy's funeral.
Edna McCarthy is dead?
Oh, my God! That's terrible.
I just sent her a chain letter.
There's a dollar I'll never see.
What a terrible night that was.
We tried making a train connection
to return to Miami...
Come on, girls, our next train comes
in 10 minutes.
I don't think I can take another
three hours on a train.
I'm looking forward to it.
Then again, I've always loved trains.
Oh, excuse me.
What track does the 9:15
to Miami leave on?
Well, ma'am, we've only got one track.
We call it track 19.
Nobody knows why,
but it gives everybody
something to talk about while they're
waiting on the next tornado
to hit the mobile home.
Thank you very much.
Please say hello to Opie
and aunt Bea for me when you see them.
Let's wait on the platform.
The train's coming soon.
The 9:15 to Miami left at 8:45.
How could our train have
left a half hour early?
All the trains out of Appalapachobee
leave early.
That's what our town's famous for!
Y'all may think this sounds kind of
silly...
but we actually printed "our trains leave
early" right on the town seal.
Can your town seal play a song
on those little horns?
No, but he'll balance
a ball on his nose
if you throw him a catfish first.
It's like The Twilight Zone. We're on a
train that ended up inside Rose's mind.
When is the next train to Miami?
We've got one scheduled to leave
at 6 am tomorrow.
-So it actually leaves at 5:30?
-Welcome to Appalapachobee!
I don't believe this! This has to be
the most depressing day of my life.
First, Edna McCarthy's funeral, now this.
Being at her funeral made me think
how quickly life can pass you by.
-Maybe I ought to be more adventurous.
-More adventurous?
The Kama Sutra had to publish
a supplement because of you.
I don't mean men.
I'm talking about things I've always
wanted to do, but never tried.
You ever have something
you wanted to do?
Some secret desire you kept
on the back burner?
I always wanted to try a nudist camp.
Some big pots belong
on the back burner.
Uh, don't you have a cousin
you should be dating?
(train whistle)
You said there were
no trains until morning.
-No more trains to Miami.
-That's the 9:20 to Sarasota.
-Oh.
-Oh, well.
-Maybe we should try and get some sleep.
-I won't be able to sleep.
-I'm just too depressed.
-Me, too.
This has been a terrible day.
A friend's funeral,
stuck here in the middle of nowhere,
trying to sleep on a hard wooden bench.
I don't think I have
ever been this depressed.
Rose, you really should remove some
of that make-up before you go to sleep.
What?
I don't believe it.
-A circus! Where did they come from?
-The 9:20 to Sarasota's a circus train.
Girls! This is a miracle.
Our paths crossed here
so they could cheer us up.
Excuse me.
Mr. Clown, could you do something
to put smiles on the faces
of three gloomy guses?
Buzz off, lady.
I'm on a cigarette break.
Oh, what a terrible night that was.
Oh, wasn't so bad.
Something good did come out of it.
I dated floppo the clown
for several months after that.
You know, his feet really were that big...
which, of course, as I'm sure you're
aware, means...
Uh...
-ma, is there any more of that ziti?
-Nope. Cleaned me out.
Let's call it a night.
Wait, we haven't decided what to do
about cousin Milo and uncle Vito.
I have an idea on that.
They're family, they'll understand.
What do you say we all chip in
and put them up at the holiday inn?
-Sounds good to me.
-Me, too. What do you think, ma?
You know, in the right hands
and the right bag,
this chipped beef isn't half bad.
(theme music playing)